>> Evgenii Ray: So
now let's become browser, part two.
So now we are slightly
complicate the exercise.
We are going to build all
the formatting context.
Also we are gonna detect all
the elements outside of normal flow.
And we're also going to build stacking
context DOM, RenderObject tree,
RenderLayer tree and
the GraphicLayer trees.
So we can see how
everything works together.
The HTML is pretty simple and
we're gonna render it line by line.
So let's start with the step one.
So we render the HTML element.
So when we render HTML element so
the DOM tree is updated.
So we added this element to the tree,
also the RenderObject is created.
Because we create 100 objects for
every DOM element,
then the root GraphicLayer is initiated.
And the root RenderLayer is initiated.
And we start with a default
stacking context and
default blocks formatting context
because we use the root element.
So let's continue and render the body.
When to render the body,
the DOM tree is updated.
The RenderObject tree is updated,
but rest is untouched.
>> Evgenii Ray: So next we render
the section tag with a few flex items.
So we updated our DOM tree.
And we updated our RenderObject tree.
Now, no position absolute apply
to our any CSS transformation,
we keep our single RenderLayer and
we also keep our single GraphicLayer.
But now we need to update
our formatting context tree.
So since the display flex is assigned,
we're creating a new
flex formatting context.
And one thing interesting is usually the
div doesn't create the block formatting
context.
But because now it's a flex item and we
are within different formatting context,
this means that this instructs
the browser that now the div element
should initiate the block
formatting context.
So we get to two more contexts here.
Okay, now let's render the absolutely
position item with a span with some text.
So we updated the DOM tree.
We added two more rendering objects,
and since the element has
the position absolute assign to that,
so we update our render layer tree.
And now we have two layers.
So the next thing that we
do is because the span or
sorry, actually because we have
the position absolute assign,
we also move out the element from
the default stacking context.
So now we have a separate realm
where we put all our elements.
So we create a new stacking context.
And within this stacking context,
we created a new default block
formatting context and
initiated the inline formatting context.
Yeah, I hope it's clear.
[LAUGH] So now we are rendering
the new div element and
since this div element has
the display inline block assigned, so
this means we need to update the DOM tree,
we also update the RenderObject tree.
GraphicLayer is untouched, RenderLayer
tree is also untouched because we don't
play with the staking context here.
And now we're updating our root stacking
context and creating a new block
formatting context because the display
inline block is assigned, okay?
Let's render the last one.
So here,
we assigned the absolute positioning, but
we also assigned the 3D transformation.
So this means that we need
to update the DOM tree.
We also update the RenderObject tree.
Then we create a new RenderLayer.
But the difference is,
this RenderLayer will be assigned
to the different GraphicLayer.
So because we initiated
a 3D transformation.
So we promoted this layer
to the new GraphicLayer.
And we also initiated
a new stacking context,
where we placed the new formatting
context initiated by the div tag.
>> Speaker 2: So the stacking context that
we end up with at the end, if you were
actually to view this in a browser,
basically you'd have the root context.
And then the stacking context one
would be right on top of that, and
the stacking context two.
>> Evgenii Ray: Yeah,
it will be on top of the next one.
>> Speaker 2: Perfect, that was all
I wanted to clarify, thank you.
>> Evgenii Ray: And we're done.
So we initially started with
the very simple concepts,
just some box model margins and bottings.
When we overused what
are the painting layers and
how they work together, and
now we can call ourselves Jedai of reflow.